what's going on everyone welcome to this
my third
video in this eight part series on
impactful communication
on social media in video one i talked
about
facebook and how you can take
information from facebook take the
online
and leverage it offline and i use the
example of
birthdays how facebook tells us every
single day whose birthday it is
and every single day most people just
click the box and type on that person's
timeline
and it's not impactful communication
it's nice
but it's not the level up whereas you
can take that information
offline with a phone call or a
handwritten letter and really have an
impact in the second video i talked
about linkedin such an underrated
platform
where there is a bigger audience and
that your content
will get more of an roi than on some of
the other platforms
and i talked about giving people
recommendations and writing published
posts
and leveraging linkedin stories and now
you're on the third video which is about
instagram and there are so many things i
could talk about with
instagram that are underrated
opportunities but i'm going to stick to
two today and the first one i'm going to
talk about
is the dms sliding into those dms
in a non-creepy way of course so what is
common on
instagram is for people to comment under
the main
photos and for conversations to happen
there
but what is a bit less common is to send
people
direct messages and direct messages are
nice
because you get that little rare it's
like the paper airplane
icon up in the top and when you see that
it's like so many things in
social media you get that little
dopamine hit of hey someone has taken
the time
to reach out to me on instagram now my
tip for this video goes beyond just
simply sending a text dm which i think
that in itself
because so much of the communication on
instagram happens
underneath photos in the comments
section so i think dms themselves
are impactful in a way but i want you to
take it to the next
level and where i think there's a really
big opportunity
is sending a direct message that
includes video
or audio and this was an idea i got from
a real estate agent who told me that
every time somebody adds them or starts
following them on instagram
that real estate agent follows the
person back and sends them
either a video or a voice direct message
thanking that person for following them
explaining that they've followed them
back and can't wait to see the content
they're about to post
why video and audio are important is
because the breakdown of communication
the way a message is communicated
happens
like this if we think about 100 of a
message
so 100 of the way a message is
communicated
93 of the way that message is
is non-verbal so it's not the specific
words that we use when we send a text
dm we are completely reliant
on the words that we use that's all that
we have
but that is only seven percent of the
way
a message is actually communicated the
other percentage
is broken up between body language and
vocal
variety 55 is body language 38
is vocal variety and tone and i've used
this example a few times for those of
you who've seen
others of my videos but the example is
this
hey everyone i am so excited to be doing
this video on social media today we're
talking about
instagram and i am so happy
hey everyone uh i am so excited to be
here
right now uh today we're talking about
instagram
woohoo yeah and uh
i'm so happy loving the fact that i'm
here doing this
these two messages if you took these
specific words from them were pretty
similar in content
but couldn't have been further from the
truth in the first video you
got the sense that i was actually
excited to be doing this video in a
second
i said all of those words but it was
very clear that i was being sarcastic
that i wasn't
being genuine with that sense and
that is communication and so when we
leave out that 93 of communication
that is why so often we've received
emails or
gotten a text from someone and we're
like what's that person's problem
because we perceive
the message to sound negative but the
person might have been smiling as they
typed that but just didn't
communicate it properly and we can't see
their smile
so when you send somebody a direct
message by just shooting a quick
video on your phone the person can see
your smiling face they can get a general
sense of your demeanor and you are going
to have a bigger
impact that way because let's face it
how many people actually do that
how many people take the time to send a
video direct message
very few while video is the best audio
is still pretty good because people can
hear the tone of your voice
it's like a voice message you can hear
if somebody is upbeat
what their general sense is there as
well you don't have the visual of it
but you can still hear the vocal tone so
that's the first tip
slide into those dms non-creepily
and do so with video or audio the
other tip i'm going to give you is to
experiment with instagram reels in the
last video i talked about the fact that
more people are consuming
content on a platform like linkedin than
they are
putting out content and this is
something that we tend to see
especially with newer social media tools
so when stories first came out with
snapchat and then
instagram there weren't a lot of people
posting content with it
there was many more people observing it
because they weren't really sure
how to make it work or what the
etiquette was
they were wanted to observe before they
started posting
we witnessed the same thing with tick
tock that those who took the time to put
out content on tick tock
got really good roi because others were
just kind of observing and feeling out
the platform
same thing with clubhouse which is the
video i'm going to talk about at the end
of this series
a lot of people observing not a lot of
people executing
so with that in mind there is something
on instagram called
reels which is kind of their answer to
tick-tock in a way
and instagram wants to see reels do
well what that means is the people who
take the time to actually produce this
content
instagram is going to reward it by
putting that in front of as many people
as possible
the algorithm will favor it because they
want to see that do
well that's similar to live video as
well if you want to do
live video or reels on instagram
there's that nervousness because not a
lot of people do it but the truth is
you are going to get in front of a
bigger audience because
when fewer people are doing something on
social media often
that is where we get the maximum return
on our time
return on our content investment i hope
that this the third video in the series
on
instagram was helpful to you video one
was facebook two was
linkedin three was instagram in future
videos we're going to talk about
twitter we're going to talk about
clubhouse which i mentioned we're going
to talk about
tick tock all of these platforms so make
sure you subscribe
hit that notifications bell leave a
comment what am i missing what am i
missing out about instagram
what did you like that i said anything
along those lines let's get the
conversation
going and if you know someone who needed
to watch this video
make sure you let them know send them
the link i would appreciate it so much
thank you and look forward to seeing you
on the next one